Data that is stored in storage device and is not actively used is called data at rest.
Storage device could range from data-center to flash drive,
but just do it on Cloud or on your computer is data at rest.
Data that is being used is data in motion.
Data traveling on Internet and local networks is also the data in motion.
You watch a video on Netflix or You tube,
that is data in motion.
PII, personal data, also known
as personal information or personally identifiable information,
is any information relating to an identifiable person.
Not taking care of customers' PII data can lead to customers identity theft.
In turn, it might have legal and financial ramifications on
your organization and can impact consumer trust and brand image.
How to handle PII?
No local laws and definitions,
identify where all PII is,
is it in data at rest or is it in data in motion?
Establish data retention policies.
Have data governance and associated controls in place.
PCI DSS.
The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCI DSS is
an information security standard for organizations that
handle branded credit cards from major card schemes.
If you have PCI data,
you need to follow stringent compliance guidelines.
There will be regular audits,
and if the guidelines are not followed,
there are fines and legal ramifications.
Core control objectives of PCI are;
built and maintain a secure network and systems, protect cardholder data,
maintain our vulnerability management program,
implement strong access control measures,
regularly monitor and test networks,
maintain an information security policy.
HIPAA is Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.
This act protects health information of individuals.
Some examples of PHI or Protected Health Information are;
medical record numbers, device identifiers, and serial numbers.
HIPAA says any company or individual that comes into
contact with PHI must enact and enforce appropriate policies,
procedures, and safeguards to protect data.
HIPAA violations might lead to termination of job,
sanctions from professional boards,
criminal charges including fines and imprisonment.
GDPR, GDPR is General Data Protection Regulation.
Its focus is data protection of EU citizens,
specifically those of European Union and European Economic Area.
This act provides more control to citizens over their data.
Non-compliance could result in fines
up to 20 million euros or four percent of global turnover.
For GDPR what should you know?
Know what you have and why you have it.
You should know where it is,
who uses it, and how it is used.
When you have sensitive information,
golden word is encryption.
Data governance can never be a bad choice.
CCPA is California Consumer Privacy Act.
This act gives California citizens
the right to know what personal information is being collected about them,
to know whether their personal information is sold or disclosed and to whom,
to say no to the sale of personal information,
to access their personal information,
to have equal service and price,
even if they exercise their privacy rights.
Words of wisdom, as Stephane says,
''Digital freedom stops where that of users begins.
Nowadays, digital evolution must no longer be
offered to a customer in trade-off between privacy and security.
Privacy is not for sale,
it's a valuable asset to protect.''